so i really liked today's interview
because like so tyler's fantastic um i
think he did a really good job of like
setting some really like healthy
boundaries
and you know not everyone is ready for
emotions right at the beginning
and the second thing to remember is that
if you're struggling to do something
remember that like emotions are just one
part of it so like why do we try to
teach people about emotions and explore
emotions it's because of the way that
emotions interact our like thought
process our motivation our ability to do
things so like digging into emotions for
entertainment value or
self-understanding or like things like
that like all that stuff is like fine
and all but what i've really found is
that emotions are just one part of us
right and as we begin to understand like
if i want to do a particular task and i
set out to do that task and i judge
myself if i feel incompetent if i'm
perfectionistic if i'm avoiding
particular things related to that task
that's why you need to understand
emotions because as you understand those
kinds of things it actually helps you do
the things that you want to do
hey man
hello
can you hear me okay
uh i can hear you just fine awesome man
i can hear you just fine too thank you
so much for coming on today hey thanks
for having me yeah um so can you uh what
do you go by how would you like
tyler or wildcat tyler's mine okay
um
so thank you very much for coming on
today tyler uh you know any anything in
particular that you wanted to kind of
talk about today or
um um anything you've got questions
about anything you want to share
i mean nothing real specific i guess but
um you know i
struggled a little bit with like anxiety
uh and i i had tweeted out that like one
of my biggest weaknesses is like how i
handle stress and like being overwhelmed
and that's when uh you guys reached out
and was like hey would you be interested
in talking and you actually reached out
like a year ago
and at the time i was like nah i just
didn't feel like i was
i don't know ready to do that i guess
like sure on on on stream and everything
um but now i'm a little i'm more open to
it
okay sure um
yeah so you know a couple of just ground
rules since it seems like in the past
maybe you were a little bit reluctant um
you know you don't have to talk about
anything that you don't feel comfortable
talking about
um you know if i sense that we're going
into territory that may feel
a little bit hesitant i may actually
point that out to you like hey i'm
noticing that maybe this is making you
feel uncomfortable
and you're welcome to just kind of step
away from those topics
uh so we'll try to keep things kind of
safe and and you know in territories
that
um
you know you're comfortable talking
about
and the last thing that i want to say is
i really appreciate you coming on
because i think how to handle stress is
something that a lot of people really
struggle with
i think it's like
um you know we use the word stress like
a catch-all but like what does that mean
and as we get into the different
components of stress we can start to
figure out almost like targeted ways to
think about our stress level and like
potentially like
mechanisms that we can use to sort of
manage it um so i think it's a really
important topic
and if you're willing to you know talk
about that today i think a lot of people
could benefit from it
yeah
hopefully okay
okay so so when you say you have trouble
handling stress help me understand what
that means
uh yeah i not necessarily that i have
like trouble handling i just think i
handle it poorly in terms of like
i don't
i feel like when i feel overwhelmed what
i should be doing is you know getting
motivated to take things out one by one
and just getting getting everything done
but instead what i do is i generally
just block out the things that are
either least interesting
or not as important or whatever and i
and i i put my focus on other things uh
especially when it comes to like doing
youtube
like i feel like i make an excuse for
myself where
you know whatever it may be like i
recently moved and so like moving was
like a big ordeal i was like oh it's so
overwhelming there's all these things i
have to do and i was like i'll just
focus on my youtube channel just make
some videos or whatever because i have
to do that anyway you know like i would
just kind of make that excuse for myself
yeah um
yeah
so i'm noticing that your mind sort of
retreats from things that feel important
to you
yeah
yeah in a way yeah and it sort of picks
other important things to focus on yeah
i guess i kind of like i set like a
priority list in my own head and like
instead of taking things out one by one
i just focus on like the top two or
whatever like the most you know a couple
important things that are
you know both important but also like
easier you know
okay
so it looks like sometimes your mind
chooses to tackle chooses to tackle
easier problems rather than hard ones
yeah just the things that come natural
to me um
sure
so tyler i'm gonna ask you kind of weird
question
what's wrong with that
um
i just think it's like a little lazy and
a little like unproductive
um
you know i feel like everybody has
things that they don't want to do that
they need to do and it's just it's
easier to just do them but for whatever
reason sometimes i just can't especially
when it's like a lot of stuff and i feel
overwhelmed and i i don't know how to
like
even break it down of like a list of
things to do and where to start
i guess that's really where it is when
i'm so overwhelmed i don't even know
where to start that's when it's really
hard
okay
what's lazy or unproductive about that
uh i'm just putting things off i don't
know just not getting not getting things
done i guess
well so i'm gonna play devil's advocate
by the way your camera seems to be like
zooming in or out i'm not sure if that's
lag on my end or it just blurs and then
refocuses yeah i think it's trying to
auto focus i could change it over to
manual but
um
so i'm gonna just play devil's advocate
and push back for a second okay which is
okay you know totally fine because i
think it'll we'll learn as as we kind of
so here you you make a priority list and
you say okay there's there are 10 things
to do
and you kind of rank them in terms of
priority and what i'm hearing you say is
that like you pick number one and number
two on the list and you just focus on
those and kind of forget about
everything else that seems to be like a
pretty good
you know strategy right like if you've
got a ton of stuff to do and you can't
do it all
you know making a priority list and then
focusing on the most important seems
like actually kind of a winning strategy
uh
kind of
except when one and two are like things
i can do infinitely you know when it
comes to like making videos or content
like i can i can literally do it all day
and call myself being productive but at
the end of the day i'm still putting off
other things i need to do
and the more i put off those little
things you know every day another little
thing gets added and it just adds up and
piles up then it gets overwhelming
yeah
so that's kind of interesting so what
i'm using or what i'm hearing this is
going to sound kind of weird
is that you use being productive as an
avoidance strategy
yeah
but it's like almost overproductive it's
like being productive in something that
i don't need to be productive in anymore
because there's other things i should do
but oh absolutely right so when we think
about avoidance strategies
the purpose of being productive is to
avoid doing this other stuff so you will
be
like productive until the end of time i
think you brought up a really good point
that the things at number one and number
two you never check like you never check
the box you're complete you're now time
to move on to number three
so it's really interesting that like
i've you know i i've actually heard this
every now and then that some people will
use productivity as a method of
avoidance
yeah
um and so let's try to understand what
do you think it is that you're avoiding
by
you know focusing on youtube
um
i don't i don't know if it's necessarily
i'm i guess it's just like it's just
mundane boring stuff i guess you know
just because youtube has always like
been so compelling and interesting and
it's always exciting and fun
um i also value like maintaining
relationships and so that's like another
thing that i think is high on the
priority list where it's like not
necessarily being productive you know
maybe it's like going out to eat with
friends or something but it's
maintaining relationships that i do feel
is important whether it's just
friendship family or you know business
whatever
um
like that's another thing where it's not
really being productive but it is
important
sure
so i'm hearing that relationships is
important like youtube is important
um
and so what kind of stuff do you tend to
avoid you mentioned like mundane like
what what's something that you wish you
could do more easily
um
i don't know i guess one example was
just like i moved recently and it was
like that was just such an overwhelming
like
task to me it was like to move
everything out of one house into a new
house and i still am not fully done like
all my boxes are in this new house but i
haven't gone through all my boxes and
organized everything and done all that
and it's like ah they're fine
sitting in the box in my garage or
whatever like technically this stuff is
here it's fine but it's like something i
need to do but it's something i can
easily excuse and be like i'll just go
like stream or make a video or something
or do something like that instead
um i guess that would be an example
and what do you so
you mentioned earlier that like you
don't handle stress well is there
something stressful about this
situation that we're describing
uh yeah it just gives me like a lot of
anxiety i guess to like
think about
trying to do it i guess
so when it comes like the moving it's
just like it's so overwhelming there's
so much stuff to go through and organize
it's gonna take so much time
and at the end of the day it's like it's
just fine sitting there in the box or
whatever you know like that's how my
head works
okay
so can you help me understand what you
mean by anxiety
um
i don't know i i mean just like an
anxious feeling just you know my heart
gets racing or whatever and my brain
just like tries to figure out and just
can't and she's like it's just so much
easier to just go focus on something
else you know
what what is it that your brain can't do
um
break down like
where to start doing something like that
okay um
you know it's like like i get it yeah
sure just go open the first box and like
see what's in it and start organizing it
but like that sounds easy but to me for
whatever reason my brain is just like oh
that's
that's not the best way to do it you
should do it this way or like you know i
don't know
okay
how are you feeling right now tyler
talking about this
uh i feel fine i just want to make sure
i convey
how i feel appropriately you know
do you feel like you're doing a good job
of conveying how you feel or you think
we're like missing pieces of it
no
no i think i just is i don't know i
think i'm doing okay okay
um i think you're doing great man
can i think for a second and just try to
put some stuff together
yeah um
oh we may go into teaching mode today
are you hoping to like have some kind of
emotional catharsis on stream today and
cry and
learn something no
no but i mean we can't i don't
if there's positive to come out the
other end yeah so i mean sometimes
people are sort of like
yeah i guess the only reason i'm anxious
about that is just because like
like we're on twitch right and twitch is
a bit of a bubble in terms of like
uh you know like a lot of people on
twitch probably haven't heard of me
because i don't really stream on twitch
um so it's like i don't know i feel like
i'm opening up to like a lot of
strangers right now you know
yeah so i
you know what we try to do tyler so look
let me just kind of take a step back and
explain so i you know i have a lot of
different experience so i studied for
about seven years to become a monk and
then i did neuroscience research and
went to medical school and became a
psychiatrist so through all of that you
know i've gained a lot of interesting
perspectives
and sometimes um when we try to like
teach people about themselves it
involves like digging into their
emotions and stuff we'll get there i
think there's a piece of that here
but basically what i
you know what we can try to do is try to
like help you understand like the
mechanism of your mind like what are the
rules because there's definitely like
all kinds of consistent programming in
your mind that something feels
overwhelming you don't know how to
start it's not the best way to do it
like all of those thoughts
i think are really important because i
think they make it hard for you to
actually engage in the action
and then what happens is you've got
something that your mind can justify
as a good use of your time and so here
you you've got thing number one that
like you kind of don't want to do you
don't really know how to do and even if
you just open the first box you would
sort of be doing it inefficiently like
does that make sense
yeah
and then on the other side you've got
things that are like clearly important
like how can you argue against like hey
my you know i'm like i'm a youtuber so
making like youtube content is like part
of my job like relationships are
important to me as a human being and so
anytime there's that conflict in your
mind like youtube and relationships like
always win out because it's like you
know compared to doing a crappy job of
opening boxes like come on man like
yeah why you know so i i think that that
what we can try to do is sort of
understand a little bit about how your
mind like looks at those problems and
hopefully help you
make it easier for you to sort of
open up boxes
by helping you understand like what the
resistance in your mind is
do you think that's a good use of our
time today
yeah okay yeah
um so
can i just ask you a couple of like uh
you know background questions a little
bit about how you got to where you are
and yeah so can you tell me a little bit
about where you grew up and and how you
what growing up was like for you
uh yeah i guess first of all i'll just
fully introduce myself my name is tyler
a wildcat um i have a youtube channel uh
i have almost 8 million subscribers i've
been doing it for damn son almost a
decade
uh my channel will turn 10 years old in
a month
um i'm 28 years old i've already said
that uh but i grew up in northeast
indiana pretty much the middle of
nowhere small town
um
and recently moved six years ago to
nashville tennessee area
i've been living here since
and yeah so yeah i started my channel
like 10 years ago and i've been doing it
full-time for like seven almost
um and doing it as a job for like eight
okay um yeah
can you tell me what growing up in
indiana was like
um
it was interesting i guess uh when i was
first growing up like up until i was
like eight or ten somewhere in there i
don't remember like third grade or
fourth grade uh my family lived in like
a little subdivision there was a bunch
of other kids i was playing with kids
all the time
um
you know going to elementary school and
then my parents moved out to like the
country and that was like a little
isolating because at the time i was an
only child used to just be able to walk
outside and go play with a bunch of
friends do whatever
now you know it was like
there was one neighbor over
that
uh they had kids but i didn't really
know them very well and they were like
homeschooled which at the time i was
like these are weird or whatever i think
that was just how my 10 year old brain
worked um
and then
high school was fun you know once i got
the ability to drive or like friends
started to get the ability to drive was
like okay now i don't feel so isolated
me and my friends can go drive somewhere
go do stuff um you know there's a lot of
country redneck activities i guess like
bonfires and going four-wheeling and all
that kind of stuff so
yeah
yeah sounds good man so it sounds like
you were were you pretty happy growing
up
uh yeah yeah
yeah there were there were definitely
times where like i felt you know like
lonely or whatever like i said like when
we first moved here a new area didn't
have any friends lived at home you know
away from a bunch of you know i couldn't
go outside and play with friends anymore
and i was an only child but
yeah oh you said you were an only child
are you still an only child or not
anymore no not anymore um my parents had
my sister when i was 12.
so yeah
what's it like
what's it like having a younger sister
uh it's cool it's cool it's very it's
funny because like she's getting into
high school now and so
uh like she's like a little zoomer
and so like we're like
we're both on the internet but like at
two spectrums almost
so it's like it's pretty fun uh like we
know of all the same stuff but we're at
two different ends of everything so
what's it like for her having a brother
who's youtube famous
uh i don't know i've talked about it
sometimes uh i feel like she tries to
like kind of hide from it a little bit
but like kids at her school know um i
feel like she tries not to make a big
deal about it but yeah
and and how did you
um sounds like it's fun to have a
younger sister
yeah yeah
and how did you start how did you get
the idea to start making stuff on
youtube
um
when i went when i was in high school i
was in like a mass media class where we
like me and my friends like would put on
the school news which was like the
announcements in the morning but it was
like in a video news broadcast format we
had a ton of fun with that
uh and then we would make like videos to
promote like upcoming events like prom
we would make some goofy advertisement
to advertise prom or whatever and that
was like one of my favorite like
creative processes was like making goofy
skits and like putting on the news and
that kind of stuff and then when i
started to go to college
um
i was originally gonna go for
communications but i realized i was like
where am i gonna get a job like in film
production or video production in
northeast indiana so i quickly changed
to just what i was good at which was
math i was like all right i'll do
electrical engineering or whatever but i
still had that itch to like be creative
video wise and i've always been into
video games and so right around that
time is when i discovered youtube and
other people uploading like video game
stuff so i was like oh i can do this
i just looked into what to get and just
started
it was terrible at first
uh and then on my first ever video i
uploaded a guy named vanossgaming
messaged me on my first video he had
just started as well and he was like hey
i'm looking for other people that are
just starting out uh i liked your first
video he's like you want to play some
time we can play and that guy now has 25
million subscribers so
that was pretty crazy that literally my
first video i met one of the most
important people in terms of like my
youtube career and friends
um
how do you how do you understand that
what do you mean
like
what do you think about just you know in
your first video meeting one of the most
important and influential people
uh i don't know it's just crazy i mean i
feel very lucky um but also it was like
you know
he just all he did was message and then
just from there it was just like it was
a natural fit we got along together and
we made a lot of funny videos together
and stuff so complimented each other
well
do you remember what your first video
was about
like what were you playing yeah it was
it was a call of duty commentary like
everybody back in 2010 2011 it was
terrible it was filmed on like uh what
was it roxio game capture or whatever
which was like 480p but it was like kind
of upscale it looked terrible i sounded
terrible i had no idea what i was
talking about i was like saying that
like i wanted to like create a channel
to like help people get better but i was
like not even good
i had no idea what i was doing and then
over the course of the next like year
and a half everything kind of evolved
and i actually found out like what type
of videos i was good at making hey what
kind of videos are you good at making
uh just like comedy videos just like
goofy stuff with friends so like me and
my friends will play whatever game we're
playing for a couple hours and turn that
two hours into the funniest edited 10 15
minutes that we can
um you know it's a lot of just like
goofy improv stuff a lot of like role
playing stuff
sounds awesome man sounds like a lot of
fun
yeah
i'm not surprised that you would rather
do that
than open up boxes oh yeah it's yeah
yeah
absolutely
that's how i justified it it makes sense
to me but yeah man
i mean you make a strong case for it bro
yeah
it's like let me open up this box
or
you know i can get on with friends and
and make a fun like play games for a
while and yeah and have some fun and
then oh by the way this also happens to
be my work
yeah and and so i can pay my bills doing
this it sounds like it's a strong
argument against you know
opening up boxes
um
and so it sounds like it took you about
a year and a half and i'm curious like
when you said that you know you kind of
started out out terrible and it took you
a while to kind of find your niche or
kind of discover what you were good at
what was the process like of being
terrible
like how did you feel about what you
were doing
six months in yeah i mean i wasn't like
terrible it was more just like i was in
no place to like give people tips or
whatever so like at the time i made my
first video was like 2011 i think i had
just gotten high-speed internet at my
house like a few months prior like
because we used to live like i said we
lived down the middle of nowhere we had
dial up until like 2010 and then we got
high-speed internet that was like two
megabits down like one up
um
so like i hadn't even really played
online much um but like i was decent but
just definitely in no position like give
tips and i slowly realized that like i
don't take video games that seriously
like i you know i just i just play to
have fun
i might get good at a game or something
but i don't ever try to like you know
that's that's not my goal is to like be
the best at any game i play or whatever
or like i only care about winning like
it's just having fun with friends and
messing around
okay makes sense
um so i'm i'm kind of hearing that you
weren't really like you didn't think it
was really a problem that six months in
you weren't making what you deemed to be
like great youtube videos like you it's
i'm hearing that you were kind of okay
with
not being good at stuff oh yeah no i no
yeah i mean i i enjoyed making the
videos regardless and they did get some
attention early just because me and my
friends kind of like
we acted as a group where if one person
grew everybody kind of grew and we
networked in that way
and so
i didn't know that they were
as terrible as i know they are now but i
mean everybody's old videos are you know
not great um but they were getting
attention and i was growing and so
yeah i didn't really
think too much of it
okay
so um thanks for kind of and what's it
like making being a uh you know youtube
content creator now like how how do you
um
i mean it's still really really fun and
still just as rewarding um you know i
feel very lucky
but there's a lot more like
i don't know i guess like hurdles and
different things that
make it
hard but it's not
i don't know it's not too hard even just
saying that like
that's one of the things like even
trying to like make any complaint or
whatever about the job just seems so
like stupid just because compared to you
know
you know what what other people do for a
living or just i know i'm fortunate to
be in the position i'm in so
hmm
just did something sneaky there tyler
so so i do you so i'm hearing you say
like you know that there are hurdles and
challenges and difficulties to being a
youtuber
and then you were like it's stupid to
say those
what things
you think about that a little bit
uh
well i just feel like i have a lot of
like my problems are not that
important in the grand scheme of things
in terms of like you know the problems
that a lot of people face
um yeah
what does that mean about the problems
that you face
um
i don't know i i don't know
i just don't feel that they're
so important that i like
i don't know i just feel like
complaining about them comes across
wrong to a lot of people
um
because at the end of the day it's like
a lot of people go through a lot worse
stuff
than just being stressed out or
overwhelmed or anxious about things
can i think for a second
sure
i'm almost kind of hearing that because
you've been so lucky
and you're so grateful for what you have
that it's not really fair for you to
complain because so many other people
have it worse
some things yeah i think so
so if we think about you know the things
that we're stressed out about
if you're stressed out about something
relating to your youtube channel and you
don't think it's really fair for you to
be stressed out about it
how do you think that affects your
ability to deal with it effectively
um i definitely think it makes it harder
how so
because it
i feel like i have a natural bias to
just like shrug a lot of things off
just like uh like i just i just have to
deal with it like it's not that big a
deal
yeah
so let me ask you a question
if i say to something in my mind it's
not that big of a deal
and when i sort of
downplay something or even devalue it
what do you think that does to my
ability to deal with it
makes it a lot harder
how
um
just because you're not making it as
important of a thing to tackle or deal
with i guess yeah
yeah right it's interesting because like
what i'm sort of hearing is that you
actually go through a process in your
mind
that makes things feel less important
does that make sense
yeah i mean i i still feel like these
things like
that they're important but i internalize
them a lot more you know i don't like
i don't like reaching out to other
people i guess really
what as much
what makes it hard for you to what makes
you not like to reach out to other
people
um i don't know i guess i just
when i when i feel personally like all
like a lot of people go through a lot
more stuff like it's not
i feel like i would just be reaching out
to someone that probably has worse
problems that they're dealing with than
my own i guess
in some in some ways
sounds very isolating
a little not i don't know
i mean i have some i have close friends
that i can reach out to you know but
yeah
so tyler i'm gonna need your help with
something
okay
so i'm gonna need to try to figure out
so sometimes when i'm talking to people
and like i point out a potential you
know emotional block or something to
them they'll say yeah it's like a small
problem
and so i don't know
if
i'm making a mountain out of molehill
or
you're making a molehill out of a
mountain
because the problem with my profession
is that once we get a hypothesis in our
mind
we come up with all kinds of ideas to
prove ourselves true irrespective of
what you say right oh he's he's defended
he's got resistance he can't face it oh
he's got like all these defense
mechanisms active right versus like like
how do we really figure out because what
i'm hearing is actually like
does it sound
how can i say this so i think a lot of
times when i work with content creators
they have trouble holding something
called the dialectic which is like
two things that feel opposing but can
actually coexist at the same time
so sometimes when i work with my
patients for example like some of them
will feel like
if someone is angry with me it's
impossible for them to love me the idea
that someone can love you and be angry
with you at the same time is like
something that their mind can't compute
so what they end up doing is they like
tip the scales in one way or the other
so either this person loves me or
they're angry with me and when they're
angry with me they certainly don't love
me and what i'm hearing you almost do is
sort of say like do you have a lot to be
grateful for do you have it easier than
other people like absolutely and at the
same time like i don't know if you get
this bro but being like a successful
youtuber is like a pretty high stress
profession
right there's like a lot
yeah right
and and furthermore like when you
devalue like
your experience of that stress as you
pointed out it makes it like way harder
to deal with
yeah
and i'm sort of noticing are you how are
you feeling right now you doing okay
yeah i feel fine okay good so i'm kind
of noticing that maybe the first step to
like why you feel overwhelmed is that
like there's a part of your mind
there's a problem that you have to deal
with but there's a part of your mind
that's actually trying to shrink it
and once you try to shrink it like
you can't deal with it appropriately
like if i think something is you know
this sized
and then it's easy for me to hold but
like i don't really appreciate that it's
actually this size then this is like way
harder for me to hold
and this is the reality of it but
instead my mind is like oh it's like not
that big of a deal
does that make sense
yeah
so
i'm also kind of
curious i mean what's stressful so if
it's okay with you what i'm gonna do is
like ask you some questions
and maybe then what we'll try to do is
like try to figure out whether like
it's you know we'll try to figure out
what the right size is does that make
sense
so i'm going to try to unpack some of
the devaluing that you do for your own
problems
and i want you to pay attention to how
you feel talking about this like do you
feel like you're coming across as
ungrateful do you feel like you're
coming across as like
someone who's like arrogant and
shouldn't be complaining and stuff like
that can i trust you to do that
yeah okay so tell me what's stressful
about you know you said there are
hurdles that you have to go through what
can you help me understand those
uh with regards to
like you i i asked you like what's it
like being a youtuber now and you said
there are hurdles and then you went down
this track of like i shouldn't complain
um
i've yeah um
i don't know
i feel like there's
a lot of expectations
put on people with a platform
um
people like you know i don't know like
people expect a lot of perfection these
days i feel like
um
[Music]
what's i think
go ahead go for it
i don't even remember what i was saying
because you can go oh
you're fine
uh so tell me what what's it like to
have people expect perfection from you
uh i mean it's definitely like stressful
because i know i'm just you know i'm
just
another person we all nobody's perfect
everybody has
their problems everybody has you know
laws
um
yeah
what's it like to be
not perfect and have people expect you
to be perfect
stressful
what does that mean
what is it what's stressful about it
trying to please people that have an
unexpected like an un
an expectation that's just not like
reality i guess
um
it sounds like you're being held to an
impossible standard
yeah i mean only to some people right i
feel like most people know but only some
people yeah
yeah that sounds i mean it sounds like a
game that's rigged that you can't win
yeah i think i tweeted something similar
to this like a couple months back was
just like
to do youtube you need to like be real
but don't be too real because if you're
too real people realize you're not
perfect and people expect you to be
perfect i think it's something i tweeted
like a couple months ago because that's
how that's pretty much how i feel
sounds like you have to be artificially
real
yes like i like i like trying to be
authentic
but being authentic means you're going
to show your own flaws and when you show
your own flaws people will judge you and
you know
think negatively about you
especially more so i feel like these
days
when i started but
it sounds hard to be judged by
people i mean it just sounds tough like
it sounds like a game that you're
destined to lose
yeah
how do you deal with that man
um
i don't i i brush a lot of stuff off i
guess you know like i mean just
kind of have to have thick skin a little
bit not care what too many people say
but it's also
doing youtube it's also important to
listen to what people are saying
you know um
at the end of the day you know you have
to
you know you want to have an audience
and that audience has things that they
want from you or or how you behave i
guess
um
and so like you want to please those
people but at the same time realize that
like you're not going to please everyone
sure
yeah sounds like you've
learned a lot about yourself and how to
like interact with like
the youtube sphere and people
you sound sound like you've really
adapted to the challenges of your
environment
yeah i would say
i'm kind of curious when you say you
brush things off
what what does that
how do you do that
what happens can you give me an example
of something that you've had to brush
off like tell us a story about that
um
i i don't even know i
i can't even think of one example but
okay
um when you made that tweet how did
people respond
i mean a lot of people agreed
um
i mean i don't think that tweet was
anything like super controversial but i
guess that's another thing is like
almost anything you say or any opinion
you put out these days is controversial
you know you have people that disagree
and
um
will judge you based off of that
that's really like
kind of stressful
so you keep on using this word stressful
so when people are judging you can you
help me understand like pretend i'm an
alien
and i'm trying to understand how humans
work and when someone makes a comment
about you like what happens in your mind
and what happens in your body
like what does that mean stressful
well i mean anytime someone i think says
something about you or like makes a
statement about you or judges you in
some way you're
naturally going to want to be
defensive but at the same time it's
important to like
not be so confident in yourself that you
think
you know
you're right all the time you know maybe
there is some validity to what someone
is saying and so i think that you know
it makes your brain
go crazy trying to think of all the
possibilities and everything
yeah so it's so what happens in your
mind so i'm i'm hearing
there's like i know it sounds kind of
weird but like
you get a comment and then you want to
be defensive what does that mean
uh you want to just shrug it off be like
oh this person doesn't know what they're
talking about or this person only knows
you know they only know
they only know who i am through like
what i you know this window or whatever
whatever content i make or whatever i
say online or whatever
um you know they don't actually
know
sure
and so i know i know it sounds kind of
weird but before you have those thoughts
do you feel hurt
i mean sometimes it depends yeah yeah
okay
um because you know when you use the
word defensive i generally think like
both the body and the mind we react
defensively like when we get hurt
right so if you think about like a
physical like defensive reaction it's
usually because
there's some kind of like stimulus that
we're responding to
yeah
i guess it's yeah
i'm not hurt in the sense of like what
they say necessarily hurts me but it's
more of just like oh there's someone out
there that like dislikes me this much or
whatever or hates me this much for like
what i see is a dumb reason or whatever
you know
um i guess that's what like
i guess that's what hurts yeah so so i'm
noticing there's kind of an initial
something sinks into your mind and then
you have a defensive reaction and then
how do you end up
do you respond to the defensive reaction
in some way i know we're kind of really
tunneling down now
um
sorry what was the question again sorry
um so you get you get defensive
and then what do you do
um
yeah i guess just like think whether or
not
like if there's genuinely something that
i'm doing wrong or that
is wrong or there's like what you know
if there is a flaw
or if this person is just having
unreasonable expectations or this person
just doesn't know me or whatever you
know
so it sounds like then you go go through
the process of like thinking through it
kind of analyze and get things like that
yeah
so i'm gonna toss out
um a definition for you i'm curious what
you think about that
so you use the word stressful
and i was about to ask you tyler what's
stressful about this process but let me
try to toss something out so i i would
almost venture that like what i imagine
is stressful for you is that like you're
trying to go about your day and live
your life right you got boxes to unpack
and then someone makes a comment on the
internet and then like
you no longer get to focus on what you
want to do and now your mind has to
think through this crap
it's like you feel a little bit hurt
then you kind of feel defensive then you
have to kind of think through it it's
almost like it's stressful to have this
thing like dumped on your plate
yeah i mean i think those two things are
more separate than that like i mean if
i'm disconnected you know if i'm doing
something like just organizing boxes or
whatever like i'm
you know i'm disconnected from online at
that point you know like i'm in my own
world just doing my own thing
um
[Music]
yeah
so what do you think what does it mean
to be what's stressful about this
process of like online judgment
um
[Music]
trying to be just trying to be yourself
while also trying to like make everyone
happy that you can't make everyone happy
you know okay
now sometimes when people have a
challenge like that it's something that
they actually had like growing up
and sometimes it's just
created by the internet because that's
what the internet does
were there periods of time in your life
like before
youtube where you felt like you were
stuck trying to make everyone happy and
couldn't live up to expectations
um
not
not not really in terms of like trying
to make everyone happy but i guess
um
you know trying to like make friends and
and whatnot
um like like i said when i had first
moved you know it was hard for me to
make friends in a new environment um
yeah
and how did you feel do you remember how
you felt
trying to make friends in a new
environment
oh yeah like very overwhelmed and
lonely and upset yeah
exactly like fourth grade but yeah
okay so i know this is gonna sound kind
of weird
but
the way that you feel nowadays dealing
with stress does it feel similar to the
way that you felt in the fourth grade
yeah kind of
can you help me understand that a little
bit in some ways
um
just the the same kind of overwhelming
feeling i guess i don't know
okay
the same overwhelming feeling okay
can you tell me about the fourth grade
tyler
um i mean it was fine after i made
friends like i i didn't have any kind of
like
real issues growing up or anything it
was more of just
um
yeah
that that you know moving i don't i
don't think there's really
anything from like my childhood that
reflects on things now i think i'm
i think it's a very different
circumstance now
but
i would agree i think the circumstance
sounds quite different
which is why i'm a little bit surprised
that the feeling feels somewhat similar
yeah
i don't know
so i don't know i don't know if it's
that similar but more of just yeah
all right
i'm easily overwhelmed i would say
okay kind of always have been
okay
can you tell me about when you say you
kind of always have been can you tell me
like
can you tell me about the fourth grade
i'm gonna ask again so now i'm hammering
okay so you got to let me know if this
feels weird
because you're you're sending me a lot
of mixed signals which i can help you
unpack in a second but
um
you say you've always easily been
overwhelmed which implies that there
have been times when you were like
before this whole youtube thing where
you got overwhelmed so can you does
anything pop into your mind about like
when you felt like super overwhelmed
um
no i i guess the biggest comparison i
guess would be
um like in school i tried to like
always be perfect in terms of like my
schoolwork
um that could be overwhelming uh and i
was like really
kind of hard on myself
and always wanted to do really well
um
i would strive for perfection in that in
that way
um
can you tell me a little bit about how
you decided to major in engineering
yeah i was just that was just i was
naturally good at math math was easy for
me math was fun
um and so it just seemed like the best
fit
obviously there's there's good jobs you
know yeah why did you um
why do you think you were so
perfectionistic in terms of grades
um
i don't know i guess that was just i
school was easy to me
and so
and it was like the only you know it was
like the most important thing at the
time
and so i just wanted to make sure i did
a good job at it i don't know
and what's overwhelming about that
uh
making mistakes not understanding
something you know i didn't understand
something it was really
stressful to like try and
you know have an expectation on myself
and not be able to meet it i guess
sure
and how did you feel about yourself when
you didn't live up to your expectations
i yeah i mean i would get really upset
at myself
what does that mean
what does that look like um
i don't i don't know um
i don't even know just upset at myself
out you know
crying whatever stress whatever i don't
know
would you kind of beat yourself up in
your head tell yourself things like you
should be able to do this
yeah
um
is that at all how you feel when you
think about unpacking a box
in some ways yes in some ways yeah
like this is not a complicated thing but
i don't understand why like it's so hard
for me
um
or you know or even if it is actually
hard for me if i'm just being lazy like
another expectation i guess
so
i'm also wondering whether your mind did
a similar thing when it was like when
you didn't get grades like were you like
oh
how can i say this is this just hard for
you or am i just stupid it's almost like
correlating like is this hard for me or
like am i just lazy
like i'm
does that make sense
yeah
can i think for a second
what do you think about this
conversation tyler
um
i don't know
it's interesting
a little
nerve-wracking i guess in a sense just
yeah but
i'm trying to figure out do you get the
sense would it help you if i try to try
to tell you like where i'm going
sure yeah okay
so i'm noticing a couple of connections
um and i want to just explain to you a
little bit about how i understand the
mind to work
now a lot of this this what i'm about to
share with you doesn't really come so
much from western psychology but
the way that like yogi's studying in
india sort of understood the mind to
work okay
so
it's kind of interesting because they
notice that when we experience negative
emotions especially when we're young we
don't know how to process them properly
and so if you think about the emotional
energy of the mind until you like digest
it so in the west for example we have
methods of emotional digestion like
going to therapy
journaling we go through these like very
like you know like active emotional
processes to like you know process
breakups grief whatever we go to like
funerals and stuff and we like share
stories like all that kind of stuff is
like emotional processing but when
you're a kid you don't you know you
can't give a eulogy when you're a kid
but giving a eulogy can be incredibly
therapeutic so what they sort of
realized is that we have these
experiences early in life and then what
happens is we kind of store those
emotions
and then what happens is our brain has
this scanning function so i know this is
going to sound kind of weird but like
you know you can look at a toilet that
you've never used before and know how to
use the toilet well how is that it's
because your mind has an impr like it
has all this data
and then it recalls the appropriate data
based on the appropriate circumstance
does that make sense and so sometimes
the emotions that we feel
in benign situations like unpacking
can feel
actually extra overwhelming because the
emotion isn't created from the unpacking
it's actually stored emotion that then
gets recalled into your mind and makes a
benign action feel overwhelming
does that make sense
yeah
so a good example of this is like if we
think about someone with like ptsd right
so if i've got ptsd and i was like you
know in afghanistan or something and
then i come back
home
and then they're benign stimuli like
someone banging a car door which will
trigger a reaction in me that is
disproportionate to the actual like
event does that make sense
yeah so one of the things that i've been
trying to suss out is whether
your difficulty in unpacking boxes
because you use these like interesting
words like because i'll ask you what
does it mean to be stressed what does it
mean to be overwhelmed and you're not
able to really give me a good answer you
kind of noticing that
yeah
and so part of the reason for that is
because sometimes when we're young the
resolution of our feelings is like very
poor
and so when i talk to adults that are
not able to describe like how they feel
in the present oftentimes it's because
it's emotional energy from the past that
has a very low resolution we're talking
like 120p
and so i can ask you lots of questions
about it doesn't mean you're stupid it
just means that like
the resolution of the emotion is like
super rough because all you really
remember was feeling like overwhelmed
but we're absolutely like if we go back
and we like listen to the words that you
use to describe your current
stresses and we listen to the words that
you use to describe your previous
stresses they're actually all the same
words it's overwhelmed stressed and
isolated
those are the three things that i'm
hearing from you over and over and over
again
and then it's kind of interesting
because when i ask you about like
unpacking boxes you're like yeah there's
some overlap it's not like one to one
which it's not gonna be because i think
there's some amount of stress from
unpacking boxes and then some amount of
stress that your mind is like pulling
back from the past and kind of
projecting onto the present
there's also a very similar pattern in
terms of your cognition
so these are just observations i don't
know if this is like true or not right
there's no like test for this but one is
that like when you're faced with a task
there's also the other theme that i'm
hearing here is expectations
so it seems like you set high
expectations on yourself you have you
know a lot of expectations of perfection
placed upon you by by you like you know
the youtube audience it's really
interesting because i've worked with a
lot of content creators and i've seen
this pattern where the kind of
expectation that they live up to has to
do with what they put on themselves
so like you have an expectation you're
like it's hard to be perfect whereas
someone else may say like it's hard to
be like
you know
funny
and that's because and then when i talk
to them it's like back when they were
younger they had like concerns that
people didn't think they were funny or
something like that so i think like does
this make sense like i'm kind of
pointing out themes to you and now i'm
going to kind of just put it back to you
like what do you think is any of this
stuff making sense or am i just you know
being way too analytical and trying to
like craft a constellation out of a pile
of stars
i mean i think some of it makes sense i
think some of it might be a little
you know a little
extrapolated i guess sure i feel like a
lot of it is just kind of
um like i've never been diagnosed with
like adhd or anything but i've heard a
lot of like
i forget i saw something on twitter that
was like um people with adhd struggle
with
uh tasks if they don't live up to if
they don't meet four
constraints or something which was
um was it interesting challenging novel
or urgent and that like resonated with
me like
a lot
like if something is not interesting or
challenging or new to me then i will not
do it until it is urgent like that is
how my brain works
yeah um
so have you ever seen a mental health
professional
no
ever been kind of interested in seeing
if you have adhd
yeah
what
what keeps you from seeing one
um
just i guess busyness and
i feel like i function pretty okay like
i don't feel like i'm
you know i just have
some things that i struggle with but i
don't think it's like
enduring my life in any crazy way
um
yeah
yeah so i think that's a reasonable
so i you know i think it's not a bad
idea to get checked out and at the same
time you know one of the criteria for
basically any psychiatric disorder or
any diagnosis is usually impairment to
function
so if we try to figure out like what's
the line between like you know being sad
and like having clinical depression it's
like impairment to function so everyone
feels sad everyone i'm not surprised i
mean i'm kind of the same way where you
know it's really hard for me to do
things that are
not urgent not interesting not
challenging
so out of the stuff that i was kind of
sharing with you what seemed to make
sense and what do you think was like too
much of a stretch like what did resonate
um
i don't i don't know i'm trying to
remember
i mean a lot of it definitely resonated
i think some of
you know
i don't i don't know that there's too
much of like ties from like my childhood
really aside from just expectations on
myself i definitely think that that
makes sense um
expectations i put on myself based off
of
expectations
other people have you know i guess if
that makes sense
um
that makes sense like that's kind of
been a thing for sure okay so yeah so i
think you know the the purpose of having
conversations like this is like
occasionally i'm gonna you know sort of
take a shotgun approach where i'm gonna
toss a lot of crap out and then like i'm
it's actually like you're the expert
here so you're the one who has to say
hey i think a lot of this stuff is like
kind of doesn't make sense to me and
this kind of thing does
now i suspect if you
i suspect there's there may be a little
bit of like
money to be found if we talk about
what the early stages of fourth grade
was like
um but if you don't want to we don't
have to
i yeah i probably wouldn't want to but
okay i don't think there's anything
there that like that's that significant
i don't think it was like
i don't know okay that's totally fine it
was just out you know just a kid trying
to make friends in a place i didn't
didn't know you know i think any kid
would struggle with that i don't think
there's anything really much deeper than
that personally but
yeah so i mean if if you're
if you don't think it's useful to talk
about i think that's totally fine um i i
do think you know just like you said
it's
i think your experience there
sounds quite common
right in the sense that like any kid
who's moving to a new place would
struggle to make friends like
um the reason that i was thinking that
maybe there's something there is because
even though the experience is common and
expected it doesn't it still means that
most kids in that situation would be
affected a particular way yeah
and even when it comes to sort of
reaching out with people now like it
sounds like when you struggle sometimes
you feel kind of isolated and you feel
like
not wanting to reach out to other people
yeah maybe in terms of like
you know yeah with like my problems like
i don't have any problem like making
friends or yeah yeah connecting even
connecting with people it's more of just
like i just try not to
burden people i guess with like my
problems because i don't feel like like
i said at the end i don't feel like my
problems are
that
you know
bad in the grand scheme of things
sure um
yeah and that i think makes a lot of
sense too i think you have a lot to be
lucky uh uh you have a lot to be
grateful for and you're you're quite
lucky in a lot of ways
so let me ask you tyler what do you
think would be a good use of our time
if you have any particular ideas that's
fine otherwise i can give you like two
or three options
um yeah you can give me some options
okay so number one is we can try to
understand the process of like unpacking
boxes because i think we have a little
bit more information now and we can kind
of revisit that and try to understand um
you know like how does that work like
how does our mind work you know how do i
go about doing things that are not
important challenging
urgent
uh
the second thing that i think we the
second track we could go down is you
mentioned that out of all the stuff that
sort of resonated with you the
expectations that you place on yourself
seem to be like what kind of stuck out
the most so we can try to explore and
understand those a little bit better
and then
i think the third thing to potentially
talk about is that i do think that
your ability to do particular things if
you got a little bit better at
not devaluing or not
discounting some of your own experiences
because you relate your experience to
someone else
like
you know i i don't know how to say this
but
you know i've had
patients come into my office since you
know
who've had trauma
and then what they always do is say like
but i it's not like i'm an afghani
refugee trying to flee the country right
what they'll do is they'll take their
experience which is like painful and
affects them and they'll say like other
people have it worse like i have it
relatively like so i had one patient for
example who had like
a single encounter of of kind of like
sexual assault in a public place with a
stranger
and so you know he was like a teenage
kid at the time and then like but one of
the things that he kept on saying when
he would come to my office is like there
are people who would get like you know
abused by family members or pre there
are people at some like i was just like
a one-time thing it wasn't actually that
bad you know my parents showed up before
things got too crazy and so he had like
this really common pattern of saying
like oh other people have it bad but for
some reason like we kept on kind of
coming back to it and he sort of felt
like you know it's not really that
traumatic
whereas it actually was right because it
doesn't it sort of doesn't matter
you know if i get hit by eight bullets
and you get hit by one bullet like
you've still been hit by a bullet
you know that damage is there
so i'm a little bit
you know i think it could help and this
is something that i found when i work
with content creators to sort of you
know be able to accept some of the
feelings that you have about being like
you know kind of getting a bad beat
sometimes and you can be grateful for
things and at the same time hold the
dialectic of like stuff can suck for you
like you're not impervious to that as
you pointed out earlier like you are
human
and just because you have a lot to be
grateful for doesn't mean that like
you can't
you know
be unhappy or complain
yeah
what do you think about those three
options so boxes expectations and
kind of
um
i think
trying to like
help myself
handle
tasks that i find overwhelming i think
would be
most useful to me
okay i feel like that's something that i
really struggle with
okay it's only getting worse is like i
get older and have more responsibilities
and stuff so
interesting okay so let's talk about
that so can you tell me a little bit
about how it's getting worse with more
responsibilities
that sounds scary um
yeah i don't know i mean just as you get
older you have more responsibilities you
have more people in your life to
maintain relationships with or
you know more
things to take care of or maintain
um you know like my youtube channel
grows year over year you know so there's
always something new and different um
so
i think that kind of stuff
okay um so do you feel like
yeah go ahead
no just there's there's you know there's
just it feels like you're over here
there's always
new things that
need
managing i guess
and
am i hearing that there's like a trend
towards like maybe things are getting
unmanageable at some point or will
become unmanageable at some point
because it's just
yeah
is that something you think about or
worry about
um
kind of
like sometimes i feel like
i maybe should simplify things you know
um
but yeah
okay
um
let me just think for a second so tyler
what do you think would be more helpful
so if we're taking uh if we're taking
like you know how to manage tasks is our
problem do you think it would be more
helpful for me to sort of explain
frameworks and like teach a little bit
or do you want me to try to like help
explore like with you and ask you
questions what would you prefer
um i think teach i think okay i'm kind
of getting that vibe too
so let's start with um
[Music]
tasks okay so the first thing that i
want to point out is that
okay let me just can i compose my
thoughts for a second and kind of come
up with like
i'm halfway there okay give me a minute
you're fine
i just don't know how i'm gonna wrap up
i've got the first half of it
okay
all right
i'm going to compose a story of pure
fiction
based on conjecture about your life
okay
give me a second so i'm gonna pull out
um an ipad and i think i'm gonna need to
draw for this so i'm gonna screen share
with you okay
so one of my um
there's a streamer who gave me a bit of
advice which was to
have two wi-fi networks
and was saying that you know if you have
two wi-fi networks like if one of them
goes out you don't have to stop
streaming
so i've done that
and it works well
but the only problem is that um
now sometimes all of my things are not
on the same network
and so like this may be like completely
bs okay so you tell me if this sounds
like it makes sense or not okay so can
you see this
uh yes
okay
okay but it's kind of blank right now
right okay
so let's start with this so we've got
tasks
okay
[Music]
oh man how am i going to stitch this
together okay so
so sometimes you do things that are
stressed like like you've got tasks that
you've got to do and then there are the
tasks that are like important
like youtube
relationships right
and then there are the tasks that are
fun
sorry for my handwriting i am a medical
doctor which means that i suck at
writing things i think it's fine um and
this can also be relationships right
yeah and so then you've got your
priority list and so what happens is
that you know naturally like you're
gonna pick important stuff
and fun stuff so here's relationships
and then you know
down here is going to be boxes
but i think there's
so we may say that this priority list is
based on
um
you know things like importance and fun
but i think that there are a couple of
other things that we've sort of hit on
one is avoidance
okay one is going to be expectation
and what i mean is like i should be able
to do this
right so this is a thought that you have
when it comes to boxes right
yeah
okay
and then um
there's also kind of like a where to
start
so i know it sounds kind of weird but
like these are sort of easy
because you know how to do this and this
is kind of hard because you don't really
like know where to start
and then the other problem here is that
like perfectionism is also in play do
you know how so you're like kind of a
perfectionistic person right
yeah
because there you are opening a box and
you're like but there's like a complete
system
to do this
and and opening a box is not something
that you can just you can't just open a
box
right what you've got to do is like
unpack
and unpack is a really
like broad thing that you can't really
see to the end of
you so it's hard to start because you
can't see the end does that make sense
yeah
okay so i'm going to teach you something
interesting how long have you been
playing video games
uh
i don't feels like forever i don't know
since i was like five or six probably
okay
so your brain has wired differently from
like people other people's brains so
here's an interesting observation i made
i don't know how much actual data there
is to support this but i've seen this
pattern time and again is there's two
kinds of problem solving close-ended
problem solving
and open-ended problem-solving
and what close-ended problem-solving is
is like if i give you a set of tasks and
i kind of give you the rules of the game
you will be very good at this
gamers are very good at close-ended
problem-solving like as i understand you
kind of do like a variety of games right
so you're not like necessarily an expert
in a particular thing
but if i give you a set of criteria you
can shine within it so like if i say
um tyler i want you to make content i
want you to play this game with these
three people and i want you to have fun
doing it like you can do that like you
can see the start you can see the end
and you can sort of figure out like how
to get from a to z does that make sense
yeah
and and you can thrive like you don't
even need to like really script it out
or anything you can be kind of organic
but you sort of know
the steps between like a and z and you
do an awesome job with it does that make
sense
yep
so if you look at video games because
that's what video games do right like so
video games put boundaries
around the task to be solved
so like gamers are really good at
optimizing dps rotations because
all of like the buttons that i can press
and the damage that they do in their
cast times and things like that those
are all like entered into the system and
i have all the puzzle pieces does that
make sense
yeah it's it's almost like if i give you
a bunch of legos like you can put
something together because legos are
constrained and like what the pieces are
so what i found with people who played
video games for a very long time is that
they're very good at close-ended
problem-solving
the other interesting thing is they seem
worse at open-ended problem-solving
um and so this is like people who are
like non-gamers
so uh i know it sounds kind of weird but
like if you give a gamer like a task
like unpack
there is no real start and no real end
to that right it's kind of like this
open-ended thing so this is why gamers
struggle to do things like find a job
so find a job is actually like a pretty
complex abstract process where it's like
how do you know you know or get a good
job let's say that so how do you know
like when a job is good enough right
like you know you can find maybe a job
but like a good job you know that's
something that we really struggle with
and if you kind of think about it if you
look at the development of let's say
like someone who's a non-gamer
there's this system of graduated
open-ended solving okay and what i mean
by that is like when you're in when
you're in school like grade school like
you don't really have any choices about
your classes right and then you go to
high school and you kind of get to pick
like then you have like more choice so
when you're like 10 years old this is
the scope of your choice and then when
you're 15 years old this is the scope of
your choice and then when you go to
college this is the scope of your choice
and then when you graduate from college
this is the scope of your choice does
that make sense
yeah like because you can take like you
know you can take a gap year or not take
a gap year and so over time if you look
at people who are sort of like you know
kind of like living a regular life
their ability so the abstraction
increases the older that you get does
that make sense
because at 25 you know you can do
whatever you want to
but generally speaking what i found with
gamers is that you know when they're 20
years old and they spend their time
playing video games instead of getting
an internship or instead of doing
extracurriculars the path of a gamer is
actually like a little bit different
so what i mean by that is
how do i get this thing to
um
so let's like so if you look at the path
of the gamer this is the same
at 15 maybe people are doing
extracurriculars but gamers are kind of
here and then at 20 like you know i may
go to classes and i may pick a major and
stuff but i'm kind of over here and then
at 25 it's like you've been making
youtube for a long time so it's kind of
like you're kind of you're kind of doing
what you're doing so and then this gap
is what i tend to see between gamers and
non-gamers with their ability to deal
with open-ended problem solving with me
so far
yeah so i think the first thing to
understand is that you know this is why
these things feel easy like i hate to
break this to you tyler but making a
successful youtube channel is actually
like more complicated than unpacking
boxes agree or disagree no i agree yeah
so but why does this feel easier to you
uh because it just it already happened i
guess and it kind of just did happen
naturally like it wasn't something i
tried to make happen
so i would say the reason this feels
easier is because you're more
experienced so what your brain like
literally i know this sounds kind of
weird but what your brain is able to do
is if i tell you tyler i want you to
make a video about fortnite that is like
an abstract goal but literally what your
brain can do is take like video about
fortnight
and it can day okay step one's gonna be
this step two is gonna be this step
three is gonna be this step four is
gonna be this step five's gonna be this
step six is gonna be this and you can do
that like you do it in your
sleep does that make sense
yeah
so this is the process that we call
operationalizing a problem
so what operationalizing a problem is is
taking an abstract goal
and turning it into steps
does that make sense
yeah and this process like is actually
really hard like if you were to ask me
dr k make a successful youtube video i
would be absolutely overwhelmed i would
not know how to do that but in your mind
like you're thinking about thumbnail
you're thinking about title you're
thinking about okay who would be good to
partner with for this particular game
and your mind is actually like you're so
you're so good at this right because
you've got like eight million
subscribers on youtube or whatever so
like you're kind of good at this and you
know how to do this process which is
going to be overwhelming for like 99.9
percent of people
so the first thing to understand is that
this is something that you may want to
operationalize so if you have trouble
doing a process
instead of holding it in your head
okay which i don't know if that makes
sense but like you know your mind
automatically like does this stuff for
youtube you may have to like
operationalize it out like in a
particular way so what i mean by that is
sort of think about okay so if we're
unpacking boxes one one thing we can
look at is number of boxes
and another thing we can look at is like
rooms in the house
yeah
right and then so the more you kind of
sit down and you can think like okay but
the problem is that like if you unpack
one box maybe it's got kitchen stuff and
maybe it's got bedroom stuff
and that's kind of chaotic and then if
you've got rooms in the house the
problem is there's stuff stuff in box
one and stuff in box a
does this sort of make sense like why
this is hard
yeah yeah right and so this is what
feels overwhelming about
unpacking because it feels like and yeah
go ahead and and what adds to that is
like that's not the only task that is
like this you know like i might have
three or four other things where it's
like
so not only is there a complicated
process to do each individual task but
then there's multiple tasks to be done
and trying to figure out which one you
know i should do which is why it's like
oh it's just easier just go
to youtube or whatever
yep so now we get to should do love it
so basically like
what we are asking you to do tyler is
the equivalent of asking my my
grandmother to figure out a dps rotation
in final fantasy 14. she can unpack
boxes
but she just doesn't know where to start
right and it's not that she's stupid and
it's not that you're stupid it's just
like literally think about this bro
you've been playing games since the age
of five where you've been given the
legos
and now what we're doing is we're giving
you plato
and it's like wait this is like way too
abstract like i need some way to turn
plato into legos and then i can put
something together like if i were to
give you 30 balls of play-doh and say
make a horse you could assemble the
balls into a horse shape easier than you
could take a lump of play-doh and like
form it into a horse does that make
sense yeah
and so this has nothing to do with you
being you know like
incompetent or anything it's just like
literally i've noticed that when people
play games a lot and especially if
you've been making youtube videos for a
decade like your brain is equipped to do
a particular task well
okay
so so what i would recommend is you know
try to create some sort of system
and be careful because when you create
the system this is what your mind is
going to do the perfectionistic
tendencies are gonna pop up so now
okay so step number one so if you're
trying to do a task okay step number one
is operationalize it
the second thing that you're gonna need
to do is when you operationalize it
you're gonna get resistance
so when you try to do step number one
what is your mind gonna tell you if i
were to tell you okay
um tyler what i want you to do is like
make a list of boxes and a list of
places where the things in the boxes go
and then what's your mind going to say
to that
like oh my god
what is the most efficient way to do
this or the best way to do it there it
is
yeah
why are you a successful youtuber tyler
what did you do when you started making
youtube videos
uh i always tried to improve them i
guess i was a bit of a perfectionist
over time sort of sort of but if you
really pay attention go back and watch
the vod
when you made your first youtube video
oh i just did it i just
yeah and that's something that i've
that's something that i've been able to
like take into doing more things youtube
related like it's like i wanted to do a
podcast and i was like i don't know how
to do a podcast i don't really know how
to interview people so i was like i'm
just gonna do it and i have gotten
better about that when it comes to
like youtube related stuff but yeah i
don't know why i still struggle with
that in like
real life stuff yeah so i think the
reason you struggle with that in real
life stuff is because you are skilled at
youtube
right whereas you're not skilled at the
other stuff like on your character sheet
you're like level 88 at youtube
and you're like level four and other
stuff
yeah so so what we see here if we really
look at the times that you've been
successful what you've been able to do
is let go of the perfectionism whereas
even like who the cares if you're
inefficient with unpacking your boxes
like yeah
you know
you know like but the answer is you care
yeah just in my head i'm like i want to
get this done as fast as possible and so
i yeah
yeah so now you have to be careful
because
even when you try to do something so
this is the other thing when it comes to
like i'm not motivated to do a task so
one thing we can do is operationalize
the problem so that we can like create
bite-size chunks and then approach it
this is the tricky thing is that that is
insufficient because when we do that our
psychology creates some kind of
resistance
does that make sense
and then the resistance this is
something that's going to feel
emotionally uncomfortable
and then what we do
is when we feel emotionally
uncomfortable what we do is avoid
and then this creates the avoidance and
then you go back and then once we are
once our mind is decided hey this feels
emotionally uncomfortable i feel like an
idiot doing this i feel like there's a
better way to do it i feel kind of
incompetent like how dumb can i possibly
be that i can't unpack these boxes
there's all that self-judgment and crap
that we sort of hit on right and this is
what you call stressful by the way
this process is i think what you mean
when you say the word stressful then
what happens is then we get to
justifications and rationalizations
so once there's something that you feel
uncomfortable or you're self-judging
about or you're not doing it good enough
i know i'm tossing a lot of words at you
but like
does this sort of make sense
and then you avoid that and then once
your mind decides emotionally
that you want to avoid something once it
becomes emotionally untenable then it
recruits our intellect to rationalize
and justify and then what it tells you
is oh by the way like this is more
important and this is more fun it is
objectively better for me to do youtube
than it is to unpack boxes and then it's
game over
yeah and then you're not going to do it
does that make sense yeah this is yeah
this is exactly this is exactly what
happens yeah right so now let's think a
little bit about okay how do we deal
with this this resistance so this is why
i was asking you kind of like the
psychological questions and what we
really try to do at healthy gamer it's
not about you know digging for like you
know deep emotional stuff just for the
sake of digging for emotional stuff it's
recognizing that you have had particular
experiences
which are going to create a psychology
that you'll be like vulnerable to that
will control you in particular ways so
the real thing that i would advise you
to do is the next time you try to pack a
box
look for this part of the script in your
mind telling you not to
right and as long as you see that script
and then you ask yourself you know why
can't i
and now we're going to get to a stretch
because i don't know if this is actually
the case but like i would imagine that
you feel somewhat stupid
for
when you try to unpack a box
yeah
and and then what happens is like you've
got this remember this crap up here
about self-judgment and like devaluing
the way that you feel then we get into
problem number three is that you feel
stupid
for not being able to unpack a box
and then what you say is i shouldn't
feel stupid
you know this is dumb like i shouldn't
feel this way and then when you devalue
this feeling you're like ignoring it and
once you ignore a particular feeling
like you can't deal with it it's sort of
like you know if i'm getting aggroed by
a mob and i'm like the mob isn't there
it's stupid there shouldn't be like this
thing shouldn't spawn in this zone it's
dumb it shouldn't be there but does it
stop the mob from like
messing you up right so when you devalue
your emotions
they start to go like kind of dormant
in a sense or invisible is maybe a
better word
and then what they do is they fuel this
resistance
because most of the resistance that we
have to things is actually like
emotional
and if as long as you're devaluing it
not taking that feeling of stupid like
seriously it's gonna like mask itself
and it'll just manifest as resistance to
you doing a task
does that make sense
yeah yep so i know it sounds kind of
weird but like i would start with first
of all like the next time you feel like
you shouldn't feel a certain way like
try to stop yourself
like notice that you know even though
you're lucky and you've got 8 million
subscribers it doesn't mean that your
life isn't stressful
right it's okay for you to feel stressed
it's okay for you to feel isolated it's
okay for you to feel alone do other
people have it worse than you do yes but
just because someone else got you know
you know like just because bad things
are happening to other people doesn't
mean that like bad things aren't going
to happen to you
and
you know the the guy who found it
started buddhism this guy named buddha
buddha
had a really interesting revelation that
i think we've forgotten despite all of
the propagation of like mindfulness and
eastern wisdom nowadays which is he said
that like dukkha or suffering is like a
constant in life
that like no amount of privilege or
power actually
will like protect you from suffering
that suffering comes it's sort of like
an internal thing and sure there's like
definitely advantages to having
privilege right like there's like lower
levels of stress and health outcomes are
improved for people who have like
financial security and things like that
there are a lot of advantages but the
interesting thing is that i don't know
that suffering is what we protect from
and so one of the the hardest things
that i try to do is for people who are
lucky in a lot of ways trying to get
them to accept their suffering like you
can be lucky and still suffer that kind
of goes back to the dialectic where like
someone can be angry at you and still
love you right but it can be hard to
hold both of those things like i'm
incredibly lucky and i also have a lot
to be stressed out about right like just
because i'm lucky and i'm privileged
doesn't mean that like i don't get to
feel stress and doesn't mean that i
don't deserve compassion from other
human beings or myself
does that make sense
yeah
questions
um
no i mean that all that is yeah that is
exactly what happens and why i struggle
to do a lot of things
um and i've i've
tried to take some steps to like get
better at things so like i have
i have like i have like a notebook where
i like write down a to-do list every day
and i i noticed that like the more i
break everything down
uh you know like whatever the task like
unpack boxes instead of that it's like
unpack these boxes or whatever like
i break the list down
as minimal as i can i even put in things
like eat or like shower or and it just
feels good to cross stuff off like i've
been doing that recently that's been
super helpful
um but yeah is
what you just described is exactly what
happens so so you stumbled upon
operationalizing because then that
abstract problem in your mind
you're chunking up
and then when you chunk it up it's like
more manageable so the other other thing
and the last thing that i'm going to
kind of i'm going to share one other
principle with you which is cognitive
ram
so
you know you you kind of said at the
very beginning of our interview like the
more stuff that piles up on your to-do
list
the more
i should be able to like
you know like the more
the bigger my to-do list is the the
higher it should increase in urgency
and since urgency is a motivator i
should be able to act does that make
sense
yeah and i also get that get tones of
this when you talk about the increased
amount of responsibility with age
which i think you're actually quite
scared of i think you're afraid that now
i'm hypothesizing okay so i'm i'm i'm
hypothesizing that there's a part of you
that's actually pretty scared that
soon enough things will get so bad that
you won't be able to handle it
um
and we don't we don't have to go down
that route but
just something for you to think about
possibly yeah um but so you kind of
think as urgency increases i should be
able to do something there's the
self-judgment by the way
see that
but the interesting thing is that our
brain
has like a certain amount of cognitive
ram
and so like if your mind is holding on
to like 10 tasks that you need to manage
then you only have this much like
working ram
and then something interesting happens
is that if we only have two tasks that
we have to remember then we have this
much working ram
and so people think that as the number
of tasks increases the urgency should
increase and i should be able to do like
it should like push me to do things but
actually what i found and one of my
you know meditation teachers told me
this like really kind of really
interesting is that like the more stuff
that your mind has to hold on to it's
sort of like you know i can't fix
something if i have my hands full
right i can't actually do any work if i
have my hands full so what you really
want to do is try to empty your mind and
then the more working memory you have
like the more you'll be able to do
tasks does that make sense
yeah
and so this is why if you look at it
like if i have ten tasks to do and i
complete one
is nine tasks easier or harder than ten
tasks
yeah easier right so we what people
notice is like there's the snowball
effect of like you know 10 is taking up
this much space and then nine is taking
up this much space and then eight is
taking up this much space and so what
people find is once they start checking
things off their to-do list it frees up
more of your mind and then you have more
ram to actually work on the remaining
tasks
that's just something for you to kind of
think about it's another principle that
i found
questions
um
no i no this all makes a lot of sense um
the cognitive uh ram thing is pretty
like i i always use the term mental
bandwidth so i have something that's
like the exact same thing yeah yep yep
yeah yeah i definitely get like periods
where i feel like
i can't handle like i don't like someone
will message me or something with
something and i just my brain was i
can't handle it like i just don't have
a mental bandwidth like
address this new thing
when i'm worried about all these other
things
makes perfect sense
yeah that's another that's another part
of all this i guess is like
not responding to people right away like
i feel like you know if i have enough
things to do and someone has something
else they need from me or whatever it
may be
as simple as it might be i brush it off
until it's like i don't even have like i
can't even think about that right now
like i have to worry about these things
or whatever
yeah so there's two other if you're
curious um you know there's a little bit
like there's a couple of other
interesting things about mental ram
so
i'm gonna just share um
two perspectives okay
so one of my teachers in in india once
told me that like every task that is
left on complete
is a karmic drain
and so what he means by that is like you
know if you have i don't know if this is
really true but he was kind of saying
that like you know if you have an
intention you make a promise to someone
and you don't keep that promise
it sort of karmically like drains your
energy because you still have like that
incomplete task to do and so i thought
that it was like kind of an interesting
example of like the more things on your
to-do list you have the harder it is to
do things
and so what he was kind of saying is as
you go back and you you sort of complete
all of your karmic tasks as you complete
those karmas and you become like
spiritually free from it what it
actually does is like gives you
spiritual energy and then eventually
you'll start like manifesting success
that's kind of a weird spiritual
perspective that i think sort of maps
onto cognitive ram in some way and the
other really interesting evidence-based
perspective is alcoholics anonymous
and in alcoholics anonymous so
alcoholics anonymous is really
interesting because it seems to be like
a good intervention
you know in some ways it like helping
people overcome like this biological
addiction and so if you think about it
like you know how does that work we
don't really know but alcoholics
anonymous when i talk to people who are
trying to get sober they talk about um
one particular
step which helps them a lot and that's
the making of men's step
and so what they do is like they've done
all of this bad crap in the past and
something about all of that like
emotional energy creates some degree of
resistance in avoidance in their mind
that then causes them to chase alcohol
and the ones who do really really well
are the ones who do the making amends
step so like literally what they do is
they'll go and they'll like apologize to
like random people from 10 years ago
when they were drinking and when they
were an and they go back and
they just like try to set things right
they don't necessarily have to you know
fix everything they don't have to like
go back and graduate from college but
they go through this mental process of
thinking about you know who's everyone
that i've screwed over like what are all
the bad things that i've done and then
they go and they try to track those
people down they say hey i'm sorry for
doing that and something really cool
happens which is that when they go
through this making amends phase
something happens with their cognitive
ram and they're much more able to sort
of like control their alcohol and like
resist its impulses so i think these are
just sort of two really interesting
observations from other dimensions based
on that kind of relate to mental
bandwidth unclear what's sort of
scientifically valid and what isn't it's
just interesting when there's you know
three different perspectives that are
all kind of speaking to the same thing
does that make sense
yeah
um but it's really fascinating that you
know the science the neuroscience and
psychology of how alcoholics anonymous
works
um
okay so other thoughts or questions
no um
i think
i think i also prioritize like doing
things for others before
myself when it comes to like like that
kind of ties back to the relationship
thing yeah in terms of like if i have
something
super simple that i need done but you
know a friend of mine or something has
something super simple that they need
done like that always like is something
that takes priority too
um
yeah bro so you really gotta work on
not devaluing yourself
yeah
i totally get that
right because relationships is up here
and yeah like i like i i
tyler is not necessarily that i like i
prioritize other people more of just
like i'd rather
let myself down you know than like let
someone else down you know what i mean
like if i have someone who expects
something from me
that's definitely like yeah
so i i it's classic tyler because if a
friend asked you hey tyler this saturday
can you help me move in you'd be like
absolutely bro
yeah all right
you'll help someone else unpack boxes at
the drop of a hat
really common
really really common
it's just because you're a good person
but there's a there's an interesting
part of that which is that so here's
kind of what i would summarize for you
tyler it sounds like you've already
started to figure out how to
operationalize that will help you unpack
your boxes
when you think about unpacking a box be
careful because watch i want you to look
for it okay i want you to like you know
place a hidden camera and prepare
yourself for like oh this is inefficient
and i could do this better i should do
this better it would be so much easier
if i did it this way look for that
thought
and then like look for this thought too
where i i shouldn't feel stupid this
should be easy for me i should be able
to handle this
because all that crap is going to be
devaluing it and as best as you can what
i want you to do in that moment is like
kind of notice those thoughts and like
look for them because they're going to
be psychological patterns it's like
program it's like malware in your brain
so prepare when i open up firefox
there's going to be pop-ups telling me
to purchase this penis enlargement pill
right like you're going to look for it
and then if you're prepared for it it's
going to be a lot easier to close
okay
and
yeah
and then it it you know in a more
long-term sense you know if you're
interested in seeing a mental health
professional i think it could be good
you know if you're curious about whether
you have adhd or not you could kind of
get an evaluation for that but i i think
this there's you got to be really
careful because you're such a good dude
and you recognize that you're so lucky
and you have so much gratitude that
you're almost kind of skirting right on
the edge of what i would call toxic
positivity
which is like oh my god like i should be
grateful like yeah and you are grateful
right like the important thing is to be
grateful and also be compassionate
towards yourself
[Music]
thoughts
questions no that makes sense
okay um
go ahead
nope
go for it
so you were gonna ask a question yeah i
was just gonna ask like how how was this
for you like in terms of when we kind of
just went through that and like is this
like helpful or
yeah definitely helpful um i just know
that i feel like there's like
a lot to unpack i feel like and it's
yeah it's just a lot to think about and
unpack and
i'm still
uh you know admittedly like i'm
definitely still like a little anxious
and nervous about this just like i said
opening up in front of you know an
audience is something that's like really
sure uh difficult and even i feel like
even for me more so than like you know a
streamer or something like i don't
typically stream most of my stuff is
just making videos and so like when it
comes to my online presence it's just
like i said it's just those 10 minutes
of funny good times with friends i don't
really try to delve into
a whole lot of
you know behind the scenes kind of
personal stuff um
it's definitely it's hard for me but
yeah so i i kind of noticed that and i
think that's totally fine like we don't
have to do what's hard for you so this
is where it's important tyler i think
you doing that work is important it's
absolutely not necessary to do live in
front of the internet
like you know
it's about your growth and what you feel
comfortable with so i would encourage
you to you know spend a little bit i
don't know like who you've got in your
life but like you know if you want to
see a therapist or something that's
totally fine otherwise you know i would
honestly spend some time like thinking
about the first few weeks of fourth
grade
and what that was like for you and like
let yourself
almost be like an older brother
to your fourth grade self
and tell yourself like you know you must
have been frightened that you wouldn't
make friends like it's
terrifying dude like does it happen to a
lot of kids yeah like it happened to me
too and like i remember
how terrifying it was
because you didn't know like the second
day you went and the third day you went
you didn't have friends like you didn't
know like does this like am i gonna make
a friend on the fourth day
it feels like you're never gonna make a
friend
yeah and so some of those kinds of like
thoughts and emotions and stuff like
they still carry with you
you know and i don't think you need to
talk about it here i'm glad you told me
you know we talked a little bit about
boundaries even even at the beginning
but um so i'm glad you sort of said yeah
i don't think that would be that useful
i think it's actually important for you
to do but i don't think you need to go
on stream
you know this way
journal or take a walk or like talk to
your dog
you know like yeah
you know the dog's gonna listen a whole
lot right now but yeah no he'll you'll
be surprised
so you know pet therapy is an
evidence-based intervention that helps
people with with you know dealing with
grief and things like that people live
longer
pets are awesome at this kind of stuff
yeah
but i i don't think you need to open up
in front of the internet you know we're
here to help you and like do whatever
meet you where you're at and we're here
to help and if it
opening up on the internet doesn't have
to be a part of it
yeah
yeah it's just i don't know it's just
very hard for me um yeah
for whatever reason i don't know
if you want to be conscious in that
regard i guess yeah sure i mean if you
want to we can talk for a second about
why it's hard for you but we also don't
have to
what makes it hard for you
uh
i don't know i guess just circling back
to like what i talked about before is
just like caring about how people
perceive me and stuff um i mean
obviously
it's
important when it comes to doing youtube
like i said to like listen to what
people think but at the same time it's
like i i
you only let in
you only show people what you want to
show them and
i don't know i guess it's just worrying
in that regard not funny being judged i
guess you know and what are you afraid
of what is the judgment that you're
afraid will happen if you open up on the
internet
i don't know
i don't know i guess it's probably a
little irrational i guess because i
don't feel like
i don't know
hard to explain
yeah so i don't think it's irrational
so watch out for those kinds of
statements
right so there you are doing what to
yourself
uh i guess devaluing yeah i feel a
little bit yeah yeah right oh it's
stupid for me to feel this way
yeah
no it's not
and and so i i think if you really like
look at it like i suspect
um
you know i don't i don't know how much
we want to have this conversation
because i think we could get to feelings
so we'll just i'll get you started
um and and so you know i suspect you
know what are you afraid people will
think
let me just ask you that
i don't
i'm not afraid of any like one specific
thing i guess just
like i don't it's not fun to be judged
by people who just they don't know you
you know and in
i'm not i don't feel like i'm the
greatest at like articulating how i feel
or
you know my thoughts a lot of times so
maybe someone could have form an opinion
about me based on something i said even
though what i said is not really
how i felt it was just how i happened
you know what i mean like how i happen
to say it or whatever
um
[Music]
yeah so i know this sounds kind of weird
but like
that's a very common
thing for your profession
so it's almost like it's own like i i
don't know you know i don't know how
much of this is you and how much of this
is just being a streamer because like
literally what happens on youtube is
like people will take a slice
of what you're trying to represent and
read into it and judge it
right so like like people who are on
youtube and twitch and tick tock and
instagram and stuff like you all get
really really you all learn the hard way
that like any kind of communication that
is unfiltered
is like
you know letting off a firework inside
the house you have no idea where it's
gonna end up
because you all get punished
for being unfiltered
um is this something deep and
psychological relating to your you know
earlier life or is it a function is it
like just one of the consequences of
your job i'd probably say like 50 50.
yeah i would say probably more the
second but maybe
yeah
maybe more the second like i said i've
seen it in just about every successful
content creator i've ever worked with
um so i think that that makes a lot of
sense
but i think it's you know are you
concerned about your inability to open
up
um
a little bit
definitely something i've struggled with
a lot
um
what are you concerned about
not not i i just don't think it i mean i
don't think it's healthy
not even about like opening up online
but just in general you know like it's
good to talk to people and
and
voice you know your thoughts and
feelings
um
i found myself doing that
on twitter at times and i'm like why why
of all places would i ever like
go to twitter like i don't know
what are you looking for when you post
on twitter like that i don't know it's
more just venting i guess you know just
getting something off my chest it's not
even like i'm looking for approval from
anyone specific or anything it's more of
just
it's a thought collected and then put
out i guess
yeah
what do you think makes it hard for you
to do that even in private
um
i don't know
no idea okay
so i'll
give you
give you some thoughts okay so first of
all
well actually let's let's
one more question so do you feel a
little bit incompetent at not being able
to do that
yeah i would say yeah okay so this is a
theme so when i said 50 50.
so i i'm noticing a thread
that when there's something that you
feel like you should do
you feel kind of incompetent and then it
makes it really hard to do it to begin
with
so whether that's opening up whether
that's unpacking boxes there's something
about and and this i think is like now
pretty specific
to something that you carry with you
right because you've got a particular
like psychological thing where like
you're it's not specific to you by the
way tons of people have this which is
why we do this online in the first place
because i can guarantee you there are
like you know hundreds or thousands of
people who feel the exact same way and
so this is something that's really
common is that somewhere along the way
our society teaches us that like
competent like we we blur the lines
between like experience and like talent
so i'd say that the reason that it's
hard for you to open up is because you
haven't had practice
yeah it makes sense
and so i don't think that you're
busted in some way i don't think that
there's anything wrong with you i think
it's like hard for you to open up
because
you know you may have just grown up in
an environment where there wasn't a
whole lot of that you know if we really
want to hypothesize like
i'd say 20 percent of people with your
experience when you were back in the
fourth grade i know i keep going back
there we don't have to talk about it but
i'm trying to copy with stuff yeah you
know there's a chance that you had a
conversation with your mom and your dad
where you said hey i don't like school
i'm not making any friends i want to
move back
and i'd say one out of five people
had an experience like that that where
their parents said sorry we can't do
that and even though it's completely
reasonable
their answer is completely reasonable it
can be psychologically jarring
almost like traumatic in a sense
and then like people
even people who are normal healthy
people with happy upbringings
we all have things because our minds are
underdeveloped so we don't really know
how to interpret that stuff and what you
can learn in that moment is like opening
up to other people like doesn't help
and once your mind learns that kind of
thing it can be like really hard to open
up to other people
that makes sense yeah so i'd say lack of
practice
um you know once again i would notice
that self-judgment and and remind
yourself that it's okay to not be able
to open up
you know like even if you're
theoretically coming on twitch to open
up you know open up you do what
you're you do what you're ready for
tyler and whatever you do today is
perfect there's nothing better that you
could do and nothing worse that you
could do you're great just the way that
you are whatever you've done is awesome
which i know may sound like a foreign
idea but like really i believe that
and practice you know like maybe open up
to a therapist or something like that
i'd recommend doing it you know
privately because i think every
advantage to help you in opening up
would be a good thing
and then the last thing to really think
about is have there been times in my
life where i've tried to open up to
people and it hasn't worked really well
and even something that you said about
the sensitivity of like you may not be
trying to convey something but like you
you convey something that then get gets
misinterpreted by people so that's a
specific fear that you have now i don't
know if that fear comes from the
internet which is completely reasonable
or whether there have been times that
have nothing to do with the internet
where you've tried to articulate
feelings
and you've learned hey i'm not very good
at this and i'm not able to convey what
i want to
therefore i'm not going to try
so those kinds of experiences could
exist in your past as well
yeah
that makes a lot of sense
um
yeah i have like now now i'm thinking of
exact scenarios yeah that has happened
yeah yep
um
yeah definitely stuff things in school
like where i would get emotional
would have you know like i would get
made fun of
and stuff in school for that you know
um
yeah that's definitely one thing for
sure yeah
so i noticed we're coming right up on
the edge of emotions
and based on some of the boundaries that
you've set i'm not gonna ask you about
that today
i think we're gonna go ahead and wrap up
are you okay with that yeah that's
perfect okay
so so just the connecting the dots is
what we're here for not the
entertainment value so we're just gonna
you know so now that you kind of you
know think about those things you can
feel that emotion coming up that's that
dormant emotion which has been there all
along
right and as you kind of feel it like i
want you to go take a walk with your dog
or whatever and like if you want to go
cry in the bathroom or whatever you need
to do you go and you process your
emotions with someone that you care
about in a place that you feel safe
and then then you'll be able to express
it you'll you're on your journey dude
you'll get there right
you've focused you've invested all of
your leveling up points into being an
awesome youtube creator
and look at how awesome you've done and
so you've got this other side of the
skill set your character sheet which you
need to spend some time work on so work
on it you know it's all good bro
yeah you're very welcome man no yeah
that's been good um
yeah i definitely
definitely probably should go
talk
someone and work through a lot of stuff
makes a lot of sense yeah yeah yeah yeah
you don't have to do it on the internet
yeah
the purpose of you coming here is to get
you to a place where you can go and and
you know
do it in a place that you feel safe
because i think you owe it to yourself
and especially i don't the one thing
that i really dislike about your thought
process is the way that you blame
yourself for things that i really don't
think are your fault
and that it's okay to not be perfect and
it's okay to not know how to do stuff
like it's just
you know you're heavily invested in
becoming an awesome youtube creator so
cool so you're 28 years old you have a
long way to go i have no idea if you're
in a relationship or you have kids or
things like that
but you know as those things become a
more important part of your life you
should do this kind of work and it'll be
awesome like you'll be able to you know
do awesome and all that kind of stuff
i'm sure
whatever you try you're already good at
but
sound good
yeah that was great you want to tell
people um any last thoughts or questions
and then maybe tell people where they
can find you and and stuff like that
um
yeah no no last thoughts other than um
that was good thank you um yeah like if
people want to find me you can just look
up wildcat on youtube uh right now i'm
playing a lot of call of duty that's
mostly what i'm doing right now i'm just
waiting for new games to come out
um a little boring for games but
yeah i play anything and everything with
friends and
yeah
awesome man thanks a lot you all should
check out his youtube channel it really
is awesome um and thanks for coming on
wildcat and uh you know good luck to you
um
you know if you have other questions and
stuff feel free to dm me you know off
stream
and we'll we can try to support you in a
couple of different ways okay
so take care man bye thank you bye
you